Raj:- Namaste! 410! Like last time, we have
a colleague this time from Zoho, she’s actually
an ex-student of the Zoho Schools of Learning.
From the School of Technology. Shruthika is
her name! She volunteered to do the host role
this time. She will take us through comments
and opinions that we have received till now.
We will share our responses, if any, about
them now!
Shruthika:- Hello everyone, a good day to
you all! Thank you, Raj, for the introduction.
I am really honored to do this. It is going
to be a great journey. I hope you guys have
fun watching this too! Thank you!
This is from Q 401, Some Signals. Arunkumar
Jothilal says “I like this in 37, from their
website. Hours aren’t equal. An hour isn’t
an hour. It’s a collection of minutes that
add up to an hour. And 60 uninterrupted minutes
is a higher-quality hour than an hour chopped
into four 15-minute sessions. Uninterrupted
hours lead to quality time, quality work.
Days chunked into tiny blocks of time are
a terrible way to work”.
Raj:- I read a blog post by Seth Godin, recently.
Inspirational blog post about how, many of
us make the classic mistake of looking at
the future as some undefinable gooey mass..
The past, the Now, and the Future. But, we
forget to realise that the future is actually
made up of days which is made of hours which
is made up of minutes.. And, if you waste
the minutes, you have lost the day, you have
lost the future! Many of us don’t realise
that! So, like Arun Kumar points out, it is
the tiny chunks that matter after all! Thank
you, Arun!
Shruthika:- This is from Davos. The same Quotidian
401. “Jeff Bezos mainly talks about how
sleep plays a major role in your life”.
Raj:- And, I would like to actually thank
Davos for this… Recently, I found out that
Davos has joined the Zoho Schools of Learning!
One can’t really say which was the cause
and which was the effect. But, if, in a small
way, I have influenced somebody out there,
he is from Agra… he came to know about this,
and he dug a little further, and eventually
he ended up joining Zoho Schools, well, it
is really fulfilling and comforting. Thank
you!
Shruthika:- This one is from Q 402. Victory’s
Defeat. This is from Sumithra Palanisamy.
“Awesome how players do post mortem how
we won, the people who watch that should look
for how they won instead of celebrating…
if a person win, we generally have higher
expectations on them to have more wins from
there on, … that makes them more stressed
and they lose and sometimes they feel the
winning is a problem… What abhinav Bindra
said was true. I think it suits for you, sir,
“You don’t need to do Quotidians, but
you just WANT it”.
Raj:- Right… So… I agree.. But, there’s
been this other situation too.. If we stop
with a Want alone, “Let me not do it today”
is something that can creep in. So, only if
you bake it into your routine, something like
brushing your teeth or having your bath, only
when you make it a “I need to do it”,
that is when some good habits probably stick..
The WANT should slowly make way to make it
a NEED. It HAS to be done. There is this beautiful
book, someday we will get to it in Quotidians,
called “The Difference Between Should and
Must”. Should is something you want to do.
Must is something the world expects you to
do. So, have the Should in place, firmly.
Shruthika:- So, this one is from Q 402 as
well. “The Burden of Winning — so much
behind the scenes! Winning is not a destination
— well explained! That scene was amazing
sir, what can you give for the next generation?
Nailing! Why did we win? If we remember this,
we can keep our life light and happy. Thanks
for sharing!”
Raj:- Thank you! Isn’t that Shine and Glow?
Yes, thank you! Recently, in Netflix, I was
watching a program detailing Michael Jordan’s
great wins, and then his retirement… In
one episode, his coach and his manager tell
him, “You did the right thing. You followed
your heart..” All that is fine. But, after
all that, what does winning give you? Winning
gives you the opportunity to wow the society
around you. The neighbourhood that you are
a part of… Those fans of the world. Pushing
their excitement and joy to the next level.
Winning, is an opportunity you get to win
again! Performance is an opportunity you get
to go back on that stage again. If you look
at it like that, that is when it becomes a
process. It is not some destination. “I
thank the world for giving me an opportunity
to do this again!” And, that is the definition
of winning, according to something interesting
I read recently!
Shruthika:- Thank you, Raj san. So, this is
from 403. Defeat’s Victory. This is from
Shashank Krishnanand. “Great video on this
topic, Raj! Thank you for sharing. Dropping
another quote relating to this that I think
of often: The longer you live, the more you
fail. Failure is the mark of a life well lived.
In turn, the only way to live without failure
is to be of no use to anyone. — Brandon
Sanderson in The Stormlight Archive series”.
Raj:- The Stormlight Archives. I came to know
about this series very recently. Shashank
is another colleague. So, the longer you live,
the more you fail. Wear your defeats as badges
of honour. If a person comes, saying “Do
you know where all I have lost? Do you know
how all I have been battered?”, with battle
wounds all over his body, people would see
him, dread the sight of him, and run away
from the battlefield! In those olden days,
in armies, they used to have this guy who
will not fix his wounds, it seems. Why? Well,
if somebody has withstood so much, and has
still made his way back to the battlefield,
he must be a really accomplished fighter..
And, if they have such a person in their army,
oh my, how powerful this army should be, … let
us not meddle with these people! So, they
used to have badges of honour, it seems..
And they are living scars.. The wounds that
you have suffered while fighting with your
enemies. So, beautiful!
Shruthika:- Okay! That was something really
interesting to hear. Something that I have
not heard before. It kinda wowed me to be
honest…
This is from Quotidian 403 as well. Arunkumar
Jothilal says, … Defeat’s Victory is greater
than Victory’s Defeat…
Raj:- Well, I am not sure… Like anything
related to life, there’s this cyclical thing
that’s involved. Is it happiness? Is it
sorrow? Only in the depths of sorrow, can
you really feel happiness, they say. If somebody
is all the time happy and smiling, like you,
right…, we really don’t know whether we
are enjoying it to the fullest, only when
you suffer.. you appreciate the shade only
when you walk in the hot sun… So, I don’t
really know what the right formula is, but
one thing I know, defeat and victory, both
are to be experienced, probably in equal measure,
for a Life to be lived fully. All the best!
Shruthika:- I definitely agree with you Raj.
Even though I am just nineteen, I used to
go to dance competitions in school, and, I
think both played a big role in it, many times
we did lose, and that motivated us to go far,
and every time we won, we had this fear of
people having expectations on us, and we pushed
ourselves even more.
Raj:- Correct! Do you remember, I often used
to say, “Sometimes you win. Other times,
you learn!” So, it is there! There is something
for you in both victory and defeat.
Shruthika:- This is from 404, Not Found. This
is from Viswanath Subramani. He praises your
videos, and he says…
Raj:- I haven’t encountered this person
till now. I had made a comment about the 18
steps at Sabari Mala. Probably he is religious,
and he has done this Yatra many times. He
had given a lot of interesting tidbits about
how the Yatra happened in olden days, how
it has changed these days, what the mandala
actually was about, and how fastidious they
were in following those guidelines. I don’t
know if there is a similar concept, a religious
pilgrimage so elaborate in its protocol and
principles, anywhere else in the world.
Shruthika:- This is from 404 too. From Ramkumar
Ramaswamy. “Trivia. Amid the serious laundry
list of HTTP error codes sits an inconsequential
but rather amusing code, 418, which stands
for ‘I am a teapot. Therefore, I cannot
brew coffee’, created as an April Fool’s
prank in 1998. And, status code 451 stands
for “unavailable for legal reasons’, a
grim nod to Ray Bradbury’s science fiction
novel, Fahrenheit 451, which focuses on censorship”.
Raj:- This 451 is really interesting. This
author, science fiction author, Ray Bradbury,
has written a book called Fahrenheit 451.
And, 451 is supposed to be the temperature
at which paper burns. So, in that science
fiction world, a dystopian society, people
are revolting, people are getting ideas, people
fight against the dictators only because they
read. Only because they develop their knowledge.
And, so, ‘let us burn them all’, decide
the management, and start the inferno! 451!
That is the name! Fahrenheit 451, paper burns!
So, look at that code number. 451! Unavailable
for legal reasons! These scientists, who put
the web together for us, 404, we saw that
room number, they have had a ball, they have
truly enjoyed! Which is why, we saw in another
Quotidian too, unless you are enjoying your
work, unless every day at work is like you
are in a playground, like you are in a pit
filled with coloured balls, like you are in
a shower, enjoying, exhilarated, thrilled,
… the best work will not come out of you.
And, that’s true! These scientists, after
all, created the internet for us, didn’t
they!
Shruthika:- Right… So, this is from 405.
From G K Balaguru. He gives you a heart, Raj
san!
Raj:- Oh! G K Balaguru. The reason I dropped
his post into today’s video is, … well,
just two months ago, he made a post, a comment,
saying, “I am going to watch every video
of yours from now on”. Many have said that,
… some don’t do it though… (You belong
to the latter category, I guess!), so, this
guy went a step further, and from then on,
from that day on, almost like marking attendance,
every time he finishes watching a video, he
would leave a black heart! I came to know,
later, that this Balaguru is actually a student
at Zoho Schools of Learning. So, the flock
is really growing and I am really happy to
see some of my students get into this game,
and some of the players become students! So,
it is really heartening!
Shruthika:- Hats off to your consistency,
Balaguru!…
Raj:- Mine..? Also??
Shruthika:- Definitely, definitely, Raj san.
So, we’ve been with him since Quotidian
started, and we’ve spoken about this in
class, and he has said, “And from now on,
every day, I am going to post a video, and
now, I follow the Pi pattern”. It is amazing
how consistent he is and …
Raj:- Thank you thank you thank you!
Shruthika:- This is from 405. Simple is better
than complex, complex is better than complicated.
Just thought it is right for life too, not
just for the programming environment.
Raj:- And, this comes from a non-programmer.
And, again and again, I have noticed this,
you could say, this philosophy, again and
again. So many things that are given as advice
to developers, are actually great pieces of
advice even to non-developers living a life.
Would you agree?
Shruthika:- I definitely agree! Yeah!
Raj:- Keep it simple. Don’t repeat yourself.
… You start wondering, hey, is this something
coming from Gauthama Buddha, or is this coming
from Linus Torvalds..? Because, they say,
the world of programming is a microcosm. It
is actually a reflection of the big bad world
around you itself. I see that a lot. Thank
you!
Shruthika:- This is from 406. Paradoxical
Gains. Neil Neero says, “With Gambhir, it
is K L Rahul and not Dinesh Karthik”…
Raj:- Yeah, yeah, so, I apologised, it looked
like Karthik to me but it was actually K L
Rahul. But…, you know what happened…?
I had written my apology, but Neil comes,
follows up with, “Yes, at a glance K L Rahul,
DK, Ajinkya, Vikranth, Dhawal, Jayadev, Varun,
Shreyas, .. all look similar!” I am not
sure if he was mocking, or if he was trying
to help me with information… Apology given,
please take it boss!
Shruthika:- This is from 407. Living Forever.
From Logesh. “Dissatisfied little needle
swinging like a mad pendulum between the three
Times… I don’t know why I like this line
so much!”
Raj:- Actually, you know what, my friend,
usually, when you like something soooo much,
sooooooo much, bordering on love, and you
are asked “WHY”, you won’t be able to
say it. In fact, you can even call it the
Grammar of Love. If, faced with the question,
“How much do you like something”, you
are able to give explanations, scientific
derivations etc, you are actually not liking
it too much! It should transcend that world
of Reason. I don’t know why, but I want
to keep looking at it, I want to keep listening
to it, that is the indication of probably
the next level, the Black Belt of Love. Earworm,
they call it. There is a word like that in
English. Some piece of music that just sticks
to you. Go to the bathroom, you keep hearing
it. It echoes as you travel in the bus. You
will not be able to stop humming it in your
mind. It is almost as if a worm is caught
inside your ear. So, it is an earworm. This
is probably a sentenceworm. Be blessed!
Shruthika:- So, this is from 407 too. By Blender
Forever. “There are a few quotidians that
just completely suck me in like a black hole
and this is one of them. Here is a quote by
Confucius, that resembles the content of this
episode. We have two lives, and the second
begins when we realise we only have one”.
Raj:- Isn’t that amazing? Yeah.. By the
way, Blender Forever is even more amazing.
He has been a long-time follower and commenter
at my channel. He is, I think a hacker too.
And he sent me, this. It is a website, which
is like a calendar for Quotidians. You go
to that page any time, any day, it will tell
you when the next Quotidian is! Also, if you
go back in time, all older Quotidians are
linked! So, a great interface… a labour
of love he has created. I don’t know what
his real name is. I don’t know his face.
But, I hope some day he will … I am saying
it is him.. what if it is a she…
Shruthika:- Could be…
Raj:- Could be YOU! Not you? Not you!
Shruthika:- I am going to keep it a secret…!
Raj:- So, we don’t know who this person
is… thank you! Thank you for doing this!
Shruthika:- Thank you so much, Blender Forever,
I am sure it will definitely be helpful for
all of us. This is from 409, a torrent of
ideas. Lakshman says, “Perfect Ten, Another
Idea. All the ten ideas could be a Quotidian
topic. Thank you!”
Raj:- He has leaked my secret! While I am
working on one, I have a parallel chat channel
with my colleagues… Hashtag FutureQ! is
what I call it. It means, we have begun here,
there is much to share about this, no time,
I will probably address this in a later Quotidian!
You have stolen my trade secret, Mr. Lakshman!
Shruthika:- So, we have come to the end. I
would like to add a small note here.. So,
it is really fascinating how you come up with
ideas. I was watching Victory’s Defeat and
Defeat’s Victory…
Raj:- Oh, that, The Winning Way…
Shruthika:- As an intro, you were talking
about Kobe Bryant, and his record, how many
shots he had missed… and I was wondering,
what would this intro lead me to… and I
saw the topic and later I saw the connection,
and it was like, oh my god, this is so amazing!
And the way you fish out for ideas everywhere,
I have seen this in our classes too, when
we do our bookreading sessions, you sometimes
read some stuff, and say, Hey, this is a great
idea for Quotidian!
Raj:- Oh, you remember that too!
Shruthika:- I was really fascinated with all
that…
Raj:- Oh, okay, I will actually let you in
on a secret here. What you see as a Quotidian,
is not conceived linearly. Probably the idea
for the 14th slide comes, and I share that
with my colleagues, and we create something
that’s woven around it, something from somewhere,
something from somewhere else, and one of
them says, this doesn’t look good, and all
that, and that’s how it develops… In fact,
you know what is the last thing that’s done
for a Quotidian? The Intro!!
Shruthika:- OHHH!!
Raj:- What do I do..? We need to attract these
folks! We can’t play a song in the beginning,
spin around like Doordarshan, and still hope
to hold on to the fleeting attention span
of our viewers! We know you will leave! That
is why, right off the bat, like it happens
in Vijay Sethupathi movies, … they kill
him in the first scene, usually. And then,
the story develops, whaaat? The hero is gone
already? But then, he comes, and comes again,
and comes again and again, like in flashback
sequences till the very last scene.. He will
be there right through the movie, but the
first scene, he will die! And so, I thought,
similarly, I should introduce something that
has an indirect tangential connection to the
whole theme, and that is conceived last, not
first! Yeah! Alright then, so, we come to
the end of 410. Coming soon is 411, and until
then, Namaste!